@W-18979555: [PWA Kit Dev Agent] Get ready to merge MCP feature to develop (#2578)
SalesforceCommerceCloud/pwa-kit: packages/pwa-storefront-mcp/README.md

Reviewer: I don't see any of our `pwa-kit-dev` tools being used here. Please take a look at some of our other packages to see how those are used. Things you'll want to do:

- Add the pwa-kit-dev as a dev-dependancy
- Add a config files for ... eslint, jest, prettier..
- Add required ignore files as well.

Reviewer: We also need a CHANGELOG.md and LICENCE for this package

Reviewer: The preference on the PWA-Kit team is that all new packages are written in TypeScript. Can you create a ticket to convert this? Not required to merge now, but we want to reap the rewards of using typescript to have better code.

Reviewer 2: W-18978933(https://gus.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/ADM_Work__c/a07EE00002HdgWNYAZ/view) is created to covert to TypeScript

> # Simple Time MCP Server

Reviewer 2: Should we remove or update it to PWA Storefront MCP Server? Seems this README is just a place holder and should be updated in the coming stories.

> # PWA Storefront MCP Server

Reviewer: One of the most difficult part of creating new projects is things like file structure and naming. Here we have this package named "pwa-storefront-mcp" which is it's own package/project in the mono-repo. 

Fur from the sounds of it, its a project that is meant to be used for development of the template-retail-react-app project.

So maybe we need to talk about how we are going to structure things. Is there going to be one MCP server to rule them all? Should each project eventually have it's own MCP server that lives in a folder in the project? 

I think we need to put our best foot forward here and iron that out strategically before jumping right into things.

Author: That’s a good question. I think that it should be separated from template-retail-react-app so that it can help all pwa developers including those who do not use template-retail-react-app.

Reviewer 2: I also prefer it serves as a central MCP service for PWA Kit. It begins mostly focus on helping customer developer develops custom React store using PWA Kit framework but it could also providing tools to help PWA Kit overall. Maybe we can change it to `pwa-mcp`?

Author: Agreed with Yuming on it being a separate MCP service. As of naming, we can work with product team to determine the name later on. This PR is to lay the base for folks to add real tools in. Not the final product yet.

An Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that helps PWA Storefront developers with development.

## What is MCP?

The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open protocol that enables secure connections between host applications (like Claude Desktop or other AI assistants) and external data sources and tools.

## Features

This MCP server provides:
- `create_new_component`: Help developers to create a new PWA Storefront component

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

## Testing the MCP Server

### Method 1: Run the automated test script
```bash
npm test
```

This will:
- Start the MCP server
- Connect to it as a client
- List available tools
- Call the `create_new_component` tool
- Display the results

### Method 2: Manual testing with MCP clients

#### Using Claude Desktop
1. Add this server to your Claude Desktop configuration:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {

>     "simple-time-server": {

Reviewer 2: This should be updated to `pwa-storefront-mcp`

# PWA Storefront MCP Server

> An Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that works together with IDEs with AI coding assistant ability to help PWA Storefront developers with their development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides AI coding assistance for developing  PWA-kit-based storefront apps in an IDE.
```

Reviewer 3: How about the above version?

> This MCP server should be run as a local MCP server installed by developers or run locally via npx (when it's available on npm in feature).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Install and run this MCP server as a local MCP server or run locally via `npx` (when it's available on `npm` in feature).
```

Reviewer 3: I tried a more direct style. I thought it is okay to omit "developers" as they're the intended audience. Is this right?

Btw - what is "feature"?

## What is MCP?

> The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open protocol that enables secure connections between host applications (like Claude Desktop or other AI assistants) and external data sources and tools.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open protocol that enables secure connections between host applications, such as Claude Desktop or other AI assistants, and external data sources and tools.
```

## Features

> This MCP server provides:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The PWA Storefront MCP Server provides these features.
```

> - `development_guidelines`: Help developers to understand and follow PWA Storefront developer guidelines and best practices

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `development_guidelines`: Helps developers understand and follow PWA Storefront developer guidelines and best practices.
```

> - `create_new_component`: Help developers to create a new PWA Storefront component. It will guide developers through a few simple questions and then generate code for the component based on the commerce data model used, layouts, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `create_new_component`: Helps developers create a new PWA Storefront component. This feature guides developers through a few simple questions and then generates code for the component based on the commerce data model used, layouts, etc.
```

> - `submit_pwa_kit_project_answers`: Help developers to generate a new PWA Storefront project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `submit_pwa_kit_project_answers`: Helps developers generate a new PWA Storefront project.
```

## Setup

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

## Run the MCP Server

> ### Method 1: Run MCP Server From Cursor

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Method 1: Run MCP Server from Cursor
```

> Open Cursor Application

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the Cursor application.
```

> Go to Cursor Menu on top menu bar, then *Settings* > *Cursor Settings...* 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. In the Cursor Menu on the top menu bar, click **Settings** > **Cursor Settings...**. 
```

<img src="./docs/images/cursor-settings.png" alt="Cursor Settings Screenshot" width="50%" />

> Select Tools & Integrations > MCP Tools > New MCP Server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Click **Tools & Integrations** > **MCP Tools** > **New MCP Server**.
```

<img src="./docs/images/cursor-mcp-tools.png" alt="Cursor MCP Tools Screenshot" width="50%" />

> You will be led to mcp.json file. Add this to your mcp.json:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `mcp.json` file opens. Add this definition to your `mcp.json` file.
```

Reviewer 3: Is the above edit correct?

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {

    "pwa-storefront-mcp": {
      "command": "node {{parent-dir-to-mcp}}/pwa-storefront-mcp/src/server/server.js",
      "transport": "stdio",
      "args": []
    }
  }
} 
```

> Cursor will:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you modify the `mcp.json` file, cursor will do these actions.
```

> - Start the MCP server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Start the MCP server.
```

> - Connect to it as a client

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Connect to the MCP server as a client.
```

> - List available tools

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- List available tools.
```

> You can go back to MCP Tools choose to enable/disable any MCP Server or tools.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can go back to MCP Tools and choose to enable/disable any MCP Server or tools.
```

### Method 2: Run MCP Server from Claude

#### Using Claude Desktop

> 1. Go to Claude menu on top menu bar then "Developer" > "Edit Config"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the Claude app menu, on the top menu bar, click **Developer** > **Edit Config**.
```

> This will lead you to "claude_desktop_config.json" file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `claude_desktop_config.json` file opens.
```

<img src="./docs/images/claude-config.png" alt="Claude MCP Config Screenshot" width="50%" />

> 2. Add this server to your claude_desktop_config.json:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Add this server definition to your `claude_desktop_config.json`.
```

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "pwa-storefront-mcp": {
      "command": "{{path-to-node}}/node",
      "transport": "stdio",
      "args": ["{{parent-dir-to-mcp}}}/pwa-storefront-mcp/src/server/server.js"]
    }
  }
}
```

> Claude will:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you modify the `claude_desktop_config.json` file, Claude will do these actions.
```

> - Start the MCP server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Start the MCP server.
```

> - Connect to it as a client

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Connect to the MCP server as a client.
```

> - List available tools

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- List available tools.
```

<img src="./docs/images/claude-list-tools.png" alt="Claude MCP Tools Screenshot" width="40%" />

You can also enable/disable any available tools from here.

#### Using other MCP clients
The server runs on stdio, so you can test it with any MCP-compatible client.

### Method 3: Manually start MCP Server

> You can also manually the server from command line and sending JSON-RPC messages:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also manually start the server from command line and sending JSON-RPC messages:
```

Reviewer 3: It looks a verb was missing.

```bash
cd {{dir-to-mcp}}
# Start the server
node src/server/server.js

# Then send JSON-RPC requests to stdin:
{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "tools/list", "params": {}}
{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 2, "method": "tools/call", "params": {"name": "create_new_component", "arguments": {}}}
```

## Files

- `server.js` - Main MCP server implementation
- `test-mcp.js` - Automated test script
- `mcp.json` - MCP configuration file for clients
- `package.json` - Node.js dependencies and scripts

## Development

To run the server in development mode:
```bash
npm start
```

> The server will output debug information to stderr and handle MCP protocol messages via stdio.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The server outputs debug information to stderr and handle MCP protocol messages via stdio.
```

- `create_app_guidelines`: Helps developers generate a new PWA Storefront project.
- `run_site_test`: Run site performance or accessibility test for a given site URL (e.g. [https://pwa-kit.mobify-storefront.com](https://pwa-kit.mobify-storefront.com))

## Setup

Install dependencies and build under `pwa-kit` root directory:

```bash
cd {{pwa-kit root directory}}
npm ci
```

## Run the MCP Server

### Method 1: Run MCP Server from Cursor

1. Open the Cursor application.

2. In the Cursor Menu on the top menu bar, click **Settings** > **Cursor Settings...**. 

<img src="./docs/images/cursor-settings.png" alt="Cursor Settings Screenshot" width="50%" />

3. Click **Tools & Integrations** > **MCP Tools** > **New MCP Server**.

<img src="./docs/images/cursor-mcp-tools.png" alt="Cursor MCP Tools Screenshot" width="50%" />

The `mcp.json` file opens. Add this definition to your `mcp.json` file.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {

    "pwa-storefront-mcp": {
      "command": "node {{parent-dir-to-mcp}}/pwa-storefront-mcp/dist/server/server.js",
      "transport": "stdio",
      "args": [],
      "env": {

>         "PWA_STOREFRONT_APP_PATH": "{{path-to-app-directory}}"

Reviewer 4: We might want to explicitly call out that these placeholders need to be updated after copying to `mcp.json`

Reviewer 5: Yes, there are couple of placeholders in the definition which we have updated now
